Documentation restructuring project (#5463)
nteract/nteract: docs/notes/core-group.md

The nteract core SDK exports a set of epics. Register these in the middleware of your Redux store. When registered, these epics are "active" and run when certain actions occur. To remove the functionality of a particular epic, unregister it from your Redux store.

Documentation on each of the epics is listed under the `@nteract/epics` tab by category.

### Comm epics

Comm epics, more formally Communication Epics, are epics that support interacting with the
[Jupyter Messaging Protocol](https://jupyter-client.readthedocs.io/en/stable/messaging.html)
via comm messages.

In the past, Jupyter added a
[custom messaging](https://jupyter-client.readthedocs.io/en/stable/messaging.html#custom-messages)
system for developers to add their own objects with Front-end and Kernel-side components, and allowed them to communicate with each other.  

To do this, IPython adds a notion of a `Comm`. This exists on both Front-end and Kernel-side components and communicates in either direction. Comm messages are an arbitrary data exchange format built on top of the

> Jupyter Messaging Protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Jupyter Messaging Protocol]https://jupyter-client.readthedocs.io/en/stable/messaging.html).
```

Author: Great link!

Comm messages are one-way communications for updating comm state,
synchronizing widget state, or requesting actions of a comm's counterpart.
In requesting actions, it works as a kernel-side request to front-end or front-end request to kernel-side.

#### commListenEpic

The `commListenEpic` activates whenever launching a new kernel successfully.

`commListenEpic` maps:

- `comm_open` kernel messages to `COMM_OPEN` actions dispatched to the Redux store
- `comm_msg` actions to `COMM_MSG` Redux actions

This epic also includes custom logic to handle processing comm messages specific to [ipywidgets](https://ipywidgets.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). See more at [ipywidgetsModel](#ipywidgetsModel).

> #### ipywidgetsModel

Reviewer: @captainsafia should we denote the limitations of this model given the number of widget interactions that don't work in nteract yet? I think it'd be good for someone building on top to know it's less mature than other components.

Reviewer 2: Erm. I'm iffy on this one. I think we can just add a note that says not all ipywidgets features are supported without going into all the details.

#### executeCellEpic

This epic does one of following two things when dispatching an `ExecuteCell` action.

- If connected to a kernel, it immediately dispatches a `SendExecuteRequest` action.
- If there is no kernel connected, it stores the execution in the queue.

#### executeCellAfterKernelLaunchEpic

This epic works alongside the `lazyLaunchKernelEpic`. When launching a kernel successfully , it dispatches a `SendExecuteRequest` action for each execution stored in the execution queue.

#### sendExecuteRequestEpic

This epic listens to `SEND_EXECUTE_REQUESTS` and creates a new Observable. This Observable  manages sending the execution request to the kernel and processing the responses. The Observable is unique per cell. Each cell has its own Observable where requests and responses are processed.

#### updateDisplayEpic

This epic subscribes to messages coming in from a kernel when launched. If one of the messages is of the `update_display_data` message type, it dispatches an `UpdateDisplay` action.

#### sendInputReplyEpic

> This epic processes sending response to `stdin` requests sent by the kernel. It listens to dispatched `SEND_INPUT_REPLY` actions when a user provides a response to a `stdin` request in the UI.

Author: I tried to figure out what this sentence means and how to potentially break it up, but I'm at a loss. Anyone have any suggestions?

Reviewer 2: Ah yeah, this one is rather a mouthful isn't it.

So, the Jupyter kernel supports a set of messages that allow you to request input from a user. For example, I can write some Python code like:

```python
> i = input("Gimme something:")
```

Then the user will see an input box with the label "Gimme something:". Whatever they put in that input box will be stored in the variable `i` in the Python kernel.

So this epic is responsible for processing the sending of what the user put in the input box to the kernel. I hope that is helpful.

Reviewer: Maybe:

```suggestion
This epic is responsible for responding to `stdin` requests to the kernel. The protocol for kernels supports message in and out like a unix process does. Functionally it listens to dispatched `SEND_INPUT_REPLY` actions when a user provides a response to such an `stdin` prompt in the UI. An example of this in a Python kernel would be sending response requests for `input("Type something after this:")`.
```

Author: This is great! I've taken bits and pieces of all the explanations and examples here for this epic. I appreciate it!

#### executeCellAfterKernelLaunchEpic

This epic works alongside the `lazyLaunchKernelEpic`. When launching a kernel successfully , it dispatches a `SendExecuteRequest` action for each execution stored in the execution queue.

#### sendExecuteRequestEpic

This epic listens to `SEND_EXECUTE_REQUESTS` and creates a new Observable. This Observable  manages sending the execution request to the kernel and processing the responses. The Observable is unique per cell. Each cell has its own Observable where requests and responses are processed.

#### updateDisplayEpic

This epic subscribes to messages coming in from a kernel when launched. If one of the messages is of the `update_display_data` message type, it dispatches an `UpdateDisplay` action.

#### sendInputReplyEpic

This epic responds to `stdin` kernel requests. This epic listens and processes `SEND_INPUT_REPLY` actions when a user responds to a `stdin` prompt in the UI.

**Example:**
The Python code below is an example of this activity in a Python kernel. For the `sendInputReplyEpic`, this epic processes user input to the kernel.

```python
message = input("Type a message:")
```

### Kernel epics

> - [ ] *missing information*

Author: Could someone provide a quick code example and note of a Kernel epic for the missing info here?

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/nteract/nteract/blob/main/packages/epics/src/kernel-lifecycle.ts#L38

https://github.com/nteract/nteract/blob/main/packages/epics/src/kernel-lifecycle.ts#L177

https://github.com/nteract/nteract/blob/main/packages/epics/src/kernel-lifecycle.ts#L225

https://github.com/nteract/nteract/blob/main/packages/epics/src/kernel-lifecycle.ts#L280

Are good to include here. The function comments can be used as the basis for the description text.

#### executeCellAfterKernelLaunchEpic

This epic works alongside the `lazyLaunchKernelEpic`. When launching a kernel successfully , it dispatches a `SendExecuteRequest` action for each execution stored in the execution queue.

#### sendExecuteRequestEpic

This epic listens to `SEND_EXECUTE_REQUESTS` and creates a new Observable. This Observable  manages sending the execution request to the kernel and processing the responses. The Observable is unique per cell. Each cell has its own Observable where requests and responses are processed.

#### updateDisplayEpic

This epic subscribes to messages coming in from a kernel when launched. If one of the messages is of the `update_display_data` message type, it dispatches an `UpdateDisplay` action.

#### sendInputReplyEpic

This epic responds to `stdin` kernel requests. This epic listens and processes `SEND_INPUT_REPLY` actions when a user responds to a `stdin` prompt in the UI.

**Example:**
The Python code below is an example of this activity in a Python kernel. For the `sendInputReplyEpic`, this epic processes user input to the kernel.

```python
message = input("Type a message:")
```

### Kernel epics

> These epics activate after launching kernel actions. This is helpful [lorem ipsum]

Author: The [lorem ipsum] is a placeholder for specifics in how a kernel epic is helpful. If anyone has a case or application of the kernel epic to provide as an example in prose, that would be great!

              )
            )
          ),
          catchError((error: Error) => {
            return of(
              actions.executeFailed({
                error: new Error(
                  "The WebSocket connection has unexpectedly disconnected."
                ),
                code: errors.EXEC_WEBSOCKET_ERROR,
                contentRef: (action as actions.NewKernelAction).payload.contentRef
              })
            );
          })
        )
    )
  );
```

**Example:**
Below is a code example showing how to get information about a newly launched kernel.

```javascript
export const acquireKernelInfoEpic = (
  action$: Observable<actions.NewKernelAction>,
  state$: StateObservable<AppState>
) =>
  action$.pipe(
    ofType(actions.LAUNCH_KERNEL_SUCCESSFUL),
    switchMap((action: actions.NewKernelAction) => {
      const {
        payload: {
          kernel: { channels, kernelSpecName },
          kernelRef,
          contentRef
        }
      } = action;
      return acquireKernelInfo(
        channels,
        kernelRef,
        contentRef,
        state$.value,
        kernelSpecName
      );
    })
  );
```

**Example:**

> The code below shows the kernel epic handling notebook content. It is similar to the desktop loading.js version.

Author: In the function comments, I couldn't quite understand what the note was.
`/**
 * NOTE: This function is _exactly_ the same as the desktop loading.js version
 *       with one strong exception -- extractNewKernel
 *       Can they be combined without incurring a penalty on the web app?
 *       The native functions used are `path.dirname`, `path.resolve`, and `process.cwd()`
 *       We could always inject those dependencies separately...
 */`

What's the best way to talk about the kernel epic example with that information?

Reviewer 2: We can just say that this epic is used to launch a kernel via the Jupyter server. This code comment is a bit more dev focused than the others.
